---
layout: post
title:  "SW Odyssey Reflection"
date:   2021-12-09 13:02:53 -0500
categories: sw reflection
author: Jacob Newland
---

This course and project have been fascinating to me.  I started off with little knowledge about how to create websites or even how websites work and finished the course with the skills needed to help my client Indivisible Arkansas by creating a website for their volunteers to use.  I found myself intimidated by the site building software early on,  especially by errors.  As I continued working through this course, I built up the confidence and skills required to navigate the software confidently and to properly search for the solutions to problems I encounter.  
This project also taught me lessons on working with clients, interpreting what they want, and properly implementing it.  My team typically communicated with Indivisible Arkansas through Zoom, which made communication much easier than they would've been through email.  Despite this, there were still a few places where communication fell short and we had to rework things.  We assumed that the previous communication between Indivisible's volunteers and the people that they're reminding to vote would be the most critical information on the website.  Later meetings revealed, however, that Indivisible's most valued data is location that a voter was registered.  This makes sense to me on a second look because it would help them maximize the number of people that register to vote.  We changed our website to prioritize the registration locations and our client is happy about it.
Indivisible Arkansas's mission is extremely important to me.  Arkansas needs voter action to become a more fairly represented state and Indivisible's goal of maximizing the number of registered voters and reminding them to vote in every applicable election feels like the best way a private entity could possibly accomplish this goal.  I think my group's website will help Indivisible work towards this goal by helping the volunteers register more voters through the use of data about registration locations and by streamlining the process of the volunteers reminding people to vote in upcoming elections.  I'm very proud of this.
I've always felt strongly about trying to maximize voter turnout.  However, this did challenge a previously held, albeit cynical belief of mine.  I thought that there was no truly effective way to increase voter turnout a significant amount without legislation that would automatically register people to vote and send them an absentee ballot that they have to opt out of to stop receiving.  Seeing this great organization using data analysis to maximize the number of people they can convince to vote gives me hope that groups like this can help make our governments more representative of as many people as possible.  I'm happy to have this opportunity to help with this goal.
As far as future goals for me to tackle, politics and computer science both felt unreachable for me since I'm not majoring in either thing, but after this experience, I feel more confident in my abilities to help accomplish goals in both areas.  I feel strongly about politics, especially environmental issues, and now I feel like I can make a difference in the political issues I care about.  This project also gave me the experience necessary to make a website for a nonprofit, something I'd love to do again in the future to help people.
